Option to configure VSCode settings in sub-folders
I wish to configure VSCode settings in sub folders, and not only in the root directory.
For example, I have a monorepo project where one of my application is a backend one implemented with Nest.js.
So I have configured in the root folder, within the .vscode/settings.json file the material-icon-theme.activeIconPack option.
However, I also have a react application with redux. 
Did you try setting up a multi-root workspace in which each of your applications is a separate root? 
They're the only context in which i use CodeLens, which exposes "Run Test" and "Debug Test" for each test method. Disabling it globally and re-enabling it in /Tests/.vscode/settings.json would be great - much better than constant toggling.
On the other hand, overriding a global (or single-folder workspace) setting by adding a one-liner settings.json to a subfolder is as simple and intuitive as it gets. 👍
As far as I understand this VSCode workspace allows me to set only folders as root which are in the root level. But, my folders in which I need this separation are inside an other folder.
I want to configure each ROOT(x) with other VSCode config
No, each root folder in your MR workspace can be located anywhere. They don't have to be siblings, nor even in the same subtree.
Can VSCode pickup on that, and apply the settings from the smaller projects .vscode/settings.json to their subtree and descendant files?
FYI Currently we are working on a multi root workspace where you can have multiple root folders.  This feature is available only in insiders. 
@xujintao it depends a lot on your project structure and language. For Dart/Flutter, it's a little wonky without #45470, but we have made some improvements to find our own project roots instead of using multi-root workspaces. 
Another use case for this is submodules: I have a project composed of several submodules, one which has different linter rules. It would be nice to be able to have my editor pick up on the submodule's .vscode/settings.json file and, say, set the indentation level for files in that directory.
I'm even more surprised that it's been an open suggestion for 4.5+ years and not yet implemented.

