Option to configure VSCode settings in sub-folders
I wish to configure VSCode settings in sub folders, and not only in the root directory.
For example, I have a monorepo project where one of my application is a backend one implemented with Nest.js.
So I have configured in the root folder, within the .vscode/settings.json file the material-icon-theme.activeIconPack option.
However, I also have a react application with redux. So I can't have the icons for redux for example because the material-icon-theme.activeIconPack option has only 1 possible value.
Did you try setting up a multi-root workspace in which each of your applications is a separate root? Each root can have its own .vscode/settings.json in which folder-level settings can have different values.
+1:
One scenario where i find myself wishing this existed is to enable editor.codeLens for only Test projects. They're the only context in which i use CodeLens, which exposes "Run Test" and "Debug Test" for each test method. Disabling it globally and re-enabling it in /Tests/.vscode/settings.json would be great - much better than constant toggling.

As for mutli-root workspaces - i've used VS Code for years and am quite comfortable with it, but i don't use mutli-root workspaces. I've read about it, understand it, but the added overhead/abstraction (small as it may be) is antithetical to my usage of VS Code. On the other hand, overriding a global (or single-folder workspace) setting by adding a one-liner settings.json to a subfolder is as simple and intuitive as it gets. 👍
As far as I understand this VSCode workspace allows me to set only folders as root which are in the root level. But, my folders in which I need this separation are inside an other folder.

VSCode workspace would fit for the following case:

MAIN_ROOT:
ROOT1
ROOT2
ROOT3

But this is my case:

MAIN_ROOT:
apps/
ROOT1
ROOT2
ROOT3

I want to configure each ROOT(x) with other VSCode config
No, each root folder in your MR workspace can be located anywhere. They don't have to be siblings, nor even in the same subtree.
/duplicate

#32693